So the next concept would be
to introduce lighting, and so
we'll go back to our demo here,
Because let's say right now the world two
evenly lit, everything just looks like
it's being lit up perfectly and
we wanna add some sort of drama.
So as we go from here to this image
from here, everything is lit perfectly
to somewhat more realistic, of a look,
and so we'll just add that in.
And the way we're gonna do that is with
lights, so we're gonna create a light,
it doesn't really matter where we create
the light somewhere before we return
render and everything.
So we're gonna say const
light = new THREE.PointLight,
we're gonna start with a Pointlight,
there's different types of lights.
There's like spotlights, there's
directional lights, hemisphere lights, but
for now we're just going to
be working with PointLights,
it's the simplest one to work with,
and it's kind of like a bulb.
You can think of it like a little light
bulb shooting light off in all directions,
and it's just something that we placed in
space and then it shoots light around it,
sort fo equally from all directions.
So the first argument is the color,
so we can say white as the color, and
then the second argument is the intensity
which is just gonna be 1 which
is like a default intensity.
Higher numbers would be really bright,
lower numbers would be really
dim just like a light bulb.
Then we're gonna add this light to
the scene, I'll say scene.add(light).
So remember, I mentioned earlier that
MeshBasicMaterial, has nothing to do,
with lighting, it's always gonna be the
same color in the same output regardless
of whether there's lights in the scene or
not.
And so, what we really need to
do is we need to change this
MeshBasicMaterial into a different
material type that accepts lighting.
So we're gonna say MeshStandardMaterial,
and standard is just their way
of saying it's their good quality like
typical material that you wanna use
in your sketches, in your 3D virtual
worlds that have to do with lights.
And so now if we look, it's got this
kind of cool eclipse thing going on,
it's like the poster for
Gravity or something.
But we want to make it so that it's
actually lit, and the problem right now is
that the light is in the same position
as the sphere in the center, and so
it's just hidden inside of this sphere.
So we're gonna push the light out
by placing it somewhere in space so
we're gonna say light.position.set,
maybe we'll make it 333 or
any number you want really just
some position in the world.
And then the other thing that we might
notice if we compare this to our demo
here, is that this looks like what we
sort of expect, it's nice and smooth.
But in this demo that we've got,
everything's kind of shiny,
it's like we're looking
at a metallic globe.
And so to fix that, we're going to change
the material properties, we're gonna say
instead of MeshStandardMaterial with map,
we're gonna say roughness is equal to 1.
So roughness,
if we're talking about different
properties of let's say a ball
that has some material on it.
If it's a perfectly
mirrored reflective ball,
it's gonna be zero in terms of roughness,
it's not at all rough.
The surface of this ball is
gonna be perfectly smooth, and
the metalness is gonna be one 100%.
So the metalness is another value we can
use, and so for a mirror, it would be one.
But for what we want, we want it to be
perfectly rough and not very metal at all.
We wanna turn off the metal on this, so
we get rid of this sort of glaring
effect in this sort of glossy effect.
Then we're gonna turn up the roughness so
that it's just a lot
smoother on the surface, and
we're gonna do the same thing for
the other material, just copy paste those.
And then you can either increase the
intensity of the point light, or you can
reposition it, to be a little bit closer,
and that will also increase the intensity.
So maybe I′ll just increase
the intensity a little bit, And yeah,
now all of a sudden we have the scene,
it's a little bit closer to what we want.
And again at any point we
can just hit Cmd+S and
export PNG, we should get a PNG.